Global Health Metrics1790  www.thelancet.com   Vol 392   November 10, 2018Introduction
Measuring non-fatal health loss is one of the most 
complex endeavours in population health research. The evolution of modern health-care systems has led to an increasing number of diseases and injuries being diagnosed and treated in individual patients, and developments such as antihypertensive and statin medications, percutaneous coronary intervention, and antiretroviral therapies have led to averted deaths and longer lives. In parallel with the increasing complexity of clinical medicine in the past century, measuring non-fatal health loss has necessitated continuous refinement as diagnostic classification systems expand, new diseases emerge, and metrics of disability improve. Across the global landscape, increased non-fatal health loss para
-
doxically reflects both success in terms of diminishing rates of premature death but also failure in terms of maintaining health care for diseased and injured individuals. It is increasingly evident that differential access to care, economic inequality, and imbalanced risk factor profiles can 
and do challenge the ability of health 
systems to achieve equitable health outcomes in the face of complex and resource-draining diseases and injuries. Addressing such lapses in health equity can pose a burden to under-resourced health care systems and economies.
Global progress in improving the burden of non-fatal 
health outcomes has been limited, in part by a predominant focus on mortality rates as a common metric of tracking global health progress.
1–3 In the latter 
part of the 20th century, the global community focused on communicable diseases such as tuberculosis, HIV, Copyright © 2018 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license.
Research in context
Evidence before this study
The Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors (GBD) study is a comprehensive study of health loss designed to capture complex patterns of disease and injury burden; for non-fatal health outcomes, these are measured in terms of incidence, prevalence, and years lived with disability (YLDs). Previous versions of the study have increased the estimation detail for conditions, locations, ages, and years. This study is a reassessment of the incidence, prevalence, and YLDs of diseases and injuries from 1990 to 2017 and updates results from previous GBD studies. There are no alternative measurements of non-fatal health loss that include the level of detail provided in the GBD study.
Added value of this study
This study adds new knowledge on non-fatal burden globally and improves upon previous iterations of the GBD study in the following ways. We expanded our database of non-fatal health outcomes by adding 2842 collaborator-provided data sources and incorporating new clinical data representing an additional 149 million admissions and 3·7 billion outpatient visits for use in GBD modelling. This resulted in a total of 68
 781 sources being 
used in the estimation process for GBD 2017
. We improved 
estimation methods including updating the calculation of the Socio-demographic Index (SDI), adding the ability to report the statistical differences in non-fatal health outcomes for males and females, using internally consistent GBD estimates of population and fertility, and adopting several cause-specific modelling improvements. Cause-specific improvements included the following; for diarrhoea, we added additional literature informing aetiological attribution; for HIV/AIDS, we updated absolute neutrophil count bias adjustments, antiretroviral therapy coverage data, and sex-specific survey estimates. For hepatitis, we added case fatality rates and hepatitis B vaccine coverage to viral hepatitis incidence models. For maternal, neonatal, and child health causes, we added in-facility delivery rates to the inpatient admission per-capita estimates to more accurately measure the denominator for incident cases and expanded the age range affected by protein-energy malnutrition. For cancer, we applied mortality-incidence ratios directly to cause-specific mortality rates to estimate incidence, and then calculated prevalence on the basis of incidence and survival estimates. For mental and substance abuse disorders, we adopted new covariates for opioid use and updated autism spectrum disorder designations to be consistent with the most recent Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. We also added 19 new causes to our cause hierarchy, including type 1 and type 2 diabetes, chronic kidney disease due to type 1 diabetes, and chronic kidney disease due to type 2 diabetes; cirrhosis due to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH); liver cancer due to NASH; invasive non-typhoidal salmonella; myelodysplastic, myeloproliferative, and other haemopoietic neoplasms; subarachnoid haemorrhage; non-rheumatic valvular heart disease including calcific aortic and degenerative mitral subtypes; aggregates of vision disorders and hearing loss; poisoning by carbon monoxide; poisoning by other means; and estimates for natures of injury (eg, fractures).
Implications of all the available evidence
Global non-fatal burden is continuing to increase despite minor improvements in age-standardised rates. Three causes (low back pain, headache disorders, and depressive disorders) have prevailed as leading causes of non-fatal health loss for nearly three decades, while diabetes has emerged as the fourth leading cause of disability globally. The increase in YLDs reflects an ageing global population commensurate with declines in premature mortality across the development spectrum. Globally, patterns of non-fatal health loss vary dynamically by sex, age, location, SDI, and cause. The increasing burden of non-fatal diseases, injuries, and impairments could pose considerable challenges to health systems and economies not equipped to care for complex and expensive conditions.