Global Health Metricswww.thelancet.com   Vol 392   November 10, 2018  1791malaria, and other conditions that cause premature 
mortality. In the past decade, it has become evident that measuring non-fatal health loss is important for tracking progress as the disease burden, in terms of disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs), evolves toward being dominated by years lived with disability (YLDs). Transitions in ageing populations and reduced mortality in many areas of the world have created dynamic temporal patterns, particularly within the past decade, and measuring such time patterns is important because advents such as developing a cure for hepatitis C, discovering new therapies for cancer, and improving treatments for HIV can rapidly transform the burden in populations with access to these developments, and as conditions such as diabetes and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease become increasingly prevalent in lower-income countries.
4
Estimates reported in recent iterations of the Global 
Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study (GBD) have also illustrated differential health outcomes in males and females in certain locations and conditions. This topic has received attention in terms of mortality rates for sex-specific conditions such as maternal causes,
5–9 
gynaecological and breast malignancies,10–13 and long-term 
complications of obstructed labour, such as obstetric fistula.
14–18 GBD 2016 also highlighted how global, age-
standardised, all-cause YLD rates are approximately 10% higher in females than males, emphasising how there may be sex-specific characteristics of the non-fatal burden that have not been explored in detail, particularly with respect to the differences in sex-specific health outcomes.
2 It is increasingly of interest to measure 
differences in male and female non-fatal health loss.
This year’s GBD study represents the continued effort 
of quantifying non-fatal health outcomes in terms of incidence, prevalence, and YLDs for a list of 354 GBD causes for the years 1990–2017 . Because the study is remeasured and published on an annual basis, new estimates are provided not only for new estimation years but also for all previous estimation years and supersede any previous results. This year’s study on non-fatal burden incorporates improvements in study design, estimation strategy, and data availability, and focuses on areas of non-fatal burden that are emerging as topical issues in measuring and improving health outcomes. We also explore the patterns of non-fatal health loss over time and estimate the statistical differences in non-fatal health loss for males and females.
Methods
Overview
The GBD study provides a standardised approach for estimating incidence, prevalence, and YLDs by cause, age, sex, year, and location. The study aims to use all accessible information on disease occurrence, natural history, and severity that passes a set of inclusion criteria. Our objective is to maximise the comparability of data, despite different collection methods or case definitions; to find a consistent set of estimates between data on prevalence, incidence, and causes of death; and to predict estimates for locations and causes with sparse or absent data by borrowing information from other locations and covariates.
The study conducts annual updates to incorporate 
new causes and data (including published literature, surveillance data, survey data, hospital and clinical data, and other types of data) and to improve demographic and statistical methods. In this study, we apply different methods to utilise available data and to measure specific epidemiological patterns of each cause of non-fatal burden. Our standard approach uses the Bayesian meta-regression tool DisMod-MR 2.1. Subsequently, we use data for severity and the occurrence of particular con
-
sequences of diseases, or sequelae, to establish the proportion of prevalent cases experiencing each sequela. There are several classes of alternative approaches for estimating non-fatal health outcomes, including for injuries, cancers, HIV /AIDS, other infectious diseases, and neonatal disorders. Presented below is a high-level description of our study methods; the supplementary methods (appendix 1 section 4) provide further detail on inputs, analytical processes, and outputs and methods speci
fic to each cause in GBD 2017 .
Analyses were completed using Python version 2.7, 
Stata version 13.1, or R version 3.3. Statistical code used for GBD estimation is publicly available online
. All 
rates are expressed as age-standardised based on the GBD reference population
19 unless otherwise specified. 
This study complies with the Guidelines for Accurate and Transparent Health Estimates Reporting (GATHER)
20 
recommendations (appendix 1).
Geographical units, time periods, and demographics
GBD 2017 is based on a geographical hierarchy that includes 195 countries and territories grouped into 21 regions and seven GBD super-regions (appendix 1). Each year, GBD includes sub
 national analyses for a few 
new countries and continues to provide subnational estimates for countries that were added in previous cycles. S
ubnational estimation in GBD 2017 includes five new 
countries (Ethiopia, Iran, New Zealand, Norway, Russia) and countries previously estimated at subnational levels (GBD 2013: China, Mexico, and the UK [regional level]; GBD 2015: Brazil, India, Japan, Kenya, South Africa, Sweden, and the USA; GBD 2016: Indonesia and the UK [local government authority level]). All analyses are at the first level of administrative organisation within each country except for New Zealand (by Māori ethnicity), Sweden (by Stockholm and non-Stockholm), and the UK (by local government authorities). All subnational estimates for these countries were incorporated into model development and evaluation as part of GBD 2017 . To meet data use requirements, in this publication we present all subnational estimates excluding those pending See Online for appendix 1
For the statistical code see 
https://github.com/ihmeuw/
ihme-modeling