Global Health Metricswww.thelancet.com   Vol 392   November 10, 2018  18412016 to 219 cases (193–248) per 100  000 in GBD 2017, while 
its corres  ponding chronic cause, cirrhosis and other 
chronic liver diseases due to hepatitis B, increased from 
170 cases 
(159–184) to 5625 cases (5159–6118) per 100  000. 
Similarly, acute hepatitis C decreased from 2152 cases
 
(1927–2382) per 100  000 in GBD 2016 to 8·11 cases 
(7·37–8·98) per 100  000, while its corresponding chronic 
cause, cirrhosis and other chronic liver diseases due to hepatitis C, increased from 149 cases (136–164) to 1723 cases (1517–1969) per 100
 000 (appendix 2).
Maternal, neonatal, and child health
Several changes were adopted for GBD 2017 . Adding clinical and claims records from outside the USA to our models affected congenital birth defects, haemo
-
globinopathies, and maternal disorders. Updating our inpatient admission per
-capita estimates to include in-
facility deliveries as a newborn admission affected neonatal disorders and congenital birth defects. Adopting in-facility delivery estimates for processing clinical data for maternal disorders led to lower estimates of pregnancy compli
-
cations, especially in high-utilisation settings. We refined our method for estimating 
age-specific preterm birth and 
its complications to be consistent with GBD risk factor analysis, which resulted in preterm birth prevalence being higher than in previous GBD estimates. We enforced internal consistency among our estimates such that, for example, the sum of all specific types of congenital heart disease must equal the total number of cases of congenital heart disease. These methodological changes have lowered global estimates for many of the specific causes of birth defects, enforced the internal consistency of mortality and non-fatal estimates, narrowed the unexplained geo
-
graphical variation in disease 
incidence, and strengthened 
the empirical re  lationship with known environmental, 
nutritional, and behavioural 
deter  minants of these con -
ditions. For nutri  tional deficiencies, we extended our 
analysis of protein-energy malnutrition past age 5 years, incorporated cause-specific mortality rates, and included the prevalent cases of moderate wasting without oedema.
 
Although the net result might seem to be an increase in the number of protein-energy malnutrition cases, it instead reflects a more comprehensive assessment of acute malnutrition than was estimated previously.
Diabetes
Diabetes has been estimated in previous GBD studies, but this is the first year that type 1 and type 2 diabetes were estimated and reported separately. The estimation strategy for diabetes is provided in more detail in the supplementary methods (appendix 1 section 4), but in summary, we measured overall diabetes and type 1 diabetes. We subtracted estimates of type 1 from overall diabetes to produce estimates for type 2 diabetes. One of the main limitations to measuring type 2 diabetes is that surveys of diabetes in adults do not make a distinction between cases of type 1 and type 2 diabetes.NASH and NAFLD
In GBD 2017, for the first time we estimated NASH as a cause of liver cancer and cirrhosis and NAFLD as an asymptomatic health state. Our global age-standardised prevalence estimate of NAFLD and NASH that leads to cirrhosis or liver cancer was 10
 935 cases (95% UI 
10 522–11  365) per 100  000 in 2017, which was lower than 
a study by Younossi and colleagues,86 which estimated a 
global prevalence of 24%. This difference is due to how we adjust for alcohol use in the population, which helps to distinguish these conditions from alcohol-driven liver disease. Our study shows a similar geographical pattern to the Younossi study, with higher rates in North America and the Middle East, corresponding to higher rates of obesity.
Cardiovascular diseases
We split haemorrhagic stroke into subarachnoid haemor
 rhage and intracerebral haemorrhage as sub -
types of stroke and added non-rheumatic valve disease as an additional cause and aetiology of heart failure. The overarching limitation in cardiovascular estimation is that low-income and middle-income locations are less
 
likely to have diagnostic tests such as treadmill tests, ankle-brachial index measurement, and other modern diagnostics. This also limits the identification of preclinical atherosclerotic disease for individuals who have not had clinical events but who might have ischaemic changes with provocative cardiac testing. For stroke, there were few sources of incidence data in many low-income and middle-income countries, and many clinical records used the ICD code for “acute, unspecified stroke”, which does not differentiate between ischaemic stroke, intracerebral haemorrhage, and subarachnoid haemorrhage. Future incorporation of more clinical record data might help to address these limitations by providing more diagnostic detail for cause subtypes.
Chronic respiratory diseases
We added several data sources that had lower estimates than the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood studies, which were the main source of asthma prevalence previously. Additionally, the adjust
-
ment factor for studies reporting on physician-diagnosed asthma without an additional question on wheezing changed between GBD 2016 and GBD 2017 after new data sources were added.
Neurological conditions
For dementia, we added covariates for whether studies had common features present in their diagnostic protocol, such as a review of clinical records or a diagnosis by a clinician to try to correct for some of the heterogeneity between studies, because only a very small fraction of studies used the same methods. We do not have reliable covariates for prevalence or incidence of dementia and 