Global Health Metrics1842  www.thelancet.com   Vol 392   November 10, 2018other neurological disorders, although in future studies, 
estimates of neurological disorders will benefit from the increased use of clinical and claims records.
Cancer
For GBD 2017, we added the new cause “myelodysplastic, myeloproliferative, and other haemopoietic neoplasms”, which were previously estimated as part of the “other neoplasms” group. In addition, we added new causes for three categories of benign and in-situ neoplasms: intestinal, cervical and uterine, and other.
Mental and substance use disorders
We estimated burden for a combined group of autism spectrum disorders consistent with the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders 5 designations in GBD 2017 as opposed to separately estimating autism and Asperger’s syndrome and other autism disorders.
87 
Modelling improvements were made for opioid use disorders by incorporating new country-level covariates, including a measure of opioid analgesic consumption by country and the prevalence of injection drug use. Enhancements in the fatal modelling of opioid use disorders also contributed to these improved estimates. Improvements were also made in terms of data additions, particularly for cocaine and amphetamine dependence, where new data showed greater subnational variation in Mexico and Brazil.
Injuries
For GBD 2017, improvements were made to the com -
putational framework required for injuries non-fatal measurement. These updates included incorporating GBD 2017 age groups 
and updating the differential 
equation solver for converting incidence to prevalence. Poisoning was divided into the two subcauses of poisoning by carbon monoxide and poisoning by other agents. Our estimate of 172 million (95% UI 152–194) falls per year resulting in any short-term or long-term disability was higher than those of WHO, which estimated 37 million falls
88 that required medical 
attention per year—a difference that might be explained by GBD’s inclusion of a wide spectrum of injury severities including minor injuries that result from falls. The WHO and GBD estimates on road injuries were more similar, with WHO estimating 20–50 million people experiencing non-fatal road injuries per year
89 and 
GBD 2017 estimating 54·2 million (47·4–61·6) road injuries in 2017 . For fires, WHO and GBD 2017 had similar estimates when comparisons were available—for example, in the USA, WHO reported 410
 000 burn 
injuries90 in 2008 and GBD 2017 reported 360  000 
(313 000–380  000) fire, heat, and hot substance injuries.
Limitations
As is evidenced in figure 1 and the supplementary methods, there is considerable heterogeneity in terms of data density for each Level 1 location-cause combination in the GBD study. Data availability does not consistently correlate with burden—that is, high-burden causes and locations can have relatively sparse data for non-fatal outcomes. This will also be increasingly problematic as more countries start to experience greater burden from NCDs.
Currently, we inform most of the severity distributions 
that affect YLD calculation using the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey from the USA. This poses a limitation as the severities experienced in this population probably do not reflect global severity distributions or reflect that severity distributions are likely to vary over time, location, age, and by treatment access. As such, YLDs estimated might not reflect improvements in disability over time as SDI increases. Even for the limited diseases such as COPD, epilepsy, and stroke for which data from epi
-
demiological studies allow us to differentiate severity by age, time, and location, the underlying data sources are still extremely limited in coverage by age, time, and location. Relying on published data on severity is unlikely to provide improved estimates in the near future. We also plan to access linked data between administrative records with diagnostic information and health surveys using health status measures to quantify severity of disease and how this changes over time and by age and sex.
Comorbidity adjustment in GBD 2017 assumes inde
-
pendent distributions of comorbid conditions. This is a limitation because comorbidity distributions are known to vary by cause, age, sex, location, and time. For example, diabetes and cardiovascular disease are more likely to be comorbid than asthma and gynaecological disorders but currently our comorbidity adjustment does not capture these correlations.
Clinical data records have known selection bias for 
subsets of the population that have access to health care. Some GBD causes rely heavily on clinical data given the lack 
of other sources, with efforts made to correct for this 
bias by using representative studies as a reference group. In recent years, the GBD study has used USA claims records to inform hospital data adjustments and various other elements of GBD estimation. Relying on data from a privately insured cohort in a high-income country poses limitations to the generalisability of these adjust
-
ments. This year, we also used tabulated claims records from Taiwan (province of China) for the first time in the GBD study
, and in future publications we plan to 
continue incorporating claims data from additional countries to address this limitation. Acquiring further health insurance claims data will not only inform estimates in terms of incidence and prevalence measures but will also help to develop more accurate parameters that affect GBD estimates in other modelling steps.
With regard to age-time patterns, in DisMod-MR 2.1, 
we start by estimating a global model that uses all the available data and covariates with hierarchical random effects for geographies to estimate a prior distribution 